---
robotName: "Hungry Hippo"
year: 2020
gameName: "Infinite Recharge"
image: "/static/img/2020.jpg"
description: "Hungry Hippo is a 2020 FRC robot built for the Infinite Recharge challenge, combining precision autonomous shooting with a robust tank-drive cycle. "
awards:
  - award: "Ford Autonomous Award"
---

The extended season of 2020-2021 presented a wide variety of problems for us to solve. We were required to intake power cells and fire them into various different goals. Teams could also spin a colour wheel and climb a bar in the final 30 seconds to score additional points. This resulted in a complex, and robust robot which was designed with a strategy in mind. 

## Advanced Automation

More than any previous year, automation took a front role in our robot. We were able to reliably score 6 power cells in the upper goal during the autonomous period. We also ran many of subsystems with minimal human interaction throughout the entire match. The turret, shooter and indexer cooperated automatically to track a vision target and fire the ball in the correct direction at the press of a single button.

## Shooter & Turret Mechanisms

The team built a turret that rotated on one axis and used a pair of flywheels to control the distance and height of a shot. This combination gave us impressive flexibility on the field and many choices of firing spots. The system used a combination of sensors to continually track the target so that is was ready as soon as the drivers decided to fire. Our shooter was able to hit the high goal reliably from 11m away giving us an almost full field range.

## Intake & Indexing Mechanisms

Our intake mechanism used a series of powered rollers to draw balls into the robot. It was actuated by a pair of pistons allowing it to be raised and lowered at will. Once the balls were within the robot, the indexer was responsible for counting and storing them. The indexer stored each ball independently and used sensors to check which cells were occupied. The indexer continually shuffled the balls towards the shooter and released one when firing. We automated the entirety of the indexer so that drivers could focus on driving.

## Climbing mechanism

Our climbing system had two distinct parts, a hook (lovingly known as the Kraken) and a winch. Once the robot was positioned below the bar, the drivers would ‘release the Kraken’ and attach the hook to the bar. The winch was then used to hoist the robot off the ground. Once we were airborne, a ratcheting system allowed the robot to be powered off whilst remaining attached to the bar.
